this is killing your SEO strategy and
here's how to fix it I get some
variation of this question all the time
if you could avoid one SEO mistake what
would it be now there are tons of big
no-nos when it comes to SEO the more
obvious red flags that can actually get
you penalized include things like
keyword stuffing using a ton of
duplicate content buying backlits things
like that but there's one major issue I
see a ton of newbies make and it's
probably not the one you think because
when people think of SEO they think of
keywords backlinks meta descriptions and
things like that can you guess what it
is let me know in the comments below the
thing I see that people look over all
the time that's killing their SEO
strategy is not optimizing their ux see
search engines don't just evaluate web
pages based on the keywords you use or
how many backlinks you have your website
has to provide users with a high quality
experience or they will a hundred
percent
seek out a different website
here's how you can optimize your ux so
that you can kick your SEO strategy into
high gear tip number one optimize your
paid speed 88.5 percent of visitors
leave a website because of slow load
time just imagine you pick up your phone
you go to do a Google search you click
on a result one second two seconds three
seconds still not loaded four seconds
five seconds six seconds halfway loaded
seven seconds eight seconds nine seconds
fully loaded that's a long time you're
gonna leave the site make sure your code
is clean using a CDN which is a Content
delivery Network so that way your
website is you know on servers all over
the web so that way when someone from
India visits your website they're
picking up your website from a server in
India when someone in California visits
your website they may pick up your
website from a server in Texas or
California or somewhere on the West
Coast
tip number two optimize your images and
content updating and republishing old
blog posts with new content and images
can increase traffic by as much as a
hundred and six percent according to
http archive images make up an average
of 21 of a total web pages weight so
make sure that you're compressing the
images not in size I'm talking about
file size right so not in Dimensions but
more so file sizes of where you want to
compress them and when you update your
content optimize your images make sure
that their images on what people are
looking for you're going to be much
better off tip number three make sure
your headlines are perfect 36 percent of
SEO experts said that the headlines were
the most important SEO element
um David Ogilvy always used to say 80
cents on the dollars spent on the
headline so you got to make sure that
your headline is amazing and there's a
lot of stats out there that show this 8
out of 10 people read a headline two out
of ten people read the rest of your
content so you gotta really focus on the
headline and make it catchy what I like
doing is running a b tests using paid
ads with different headlines to figure
out what people like the most
tip number four simplify your website's
navigation 84.6 of web designers believe
that crowded web design is the most
common mistake made by small businesses
and look simplify your navigation
simplify you know what's on a page
remove unnecessary elements it just
makes things easier for people to
navigate if you're not sure if you're
making things simpler or worse you can
always use analytics tools like crazy
egg which shows you where people click
you can also survey them and on top of
that if you want to do a lot of user
testing check out usertesting.com which
can also give you more feedback tip
number five improve your mobile
experience Google recently reported that
60 of searches are completed on your
phone that's a lot
how's your mobile experience is it
amazing is it bad majority of the people
that visit your website eventually if
not already will be from mobile devices
look at a lot of social networks that
use Instagram Twitter Tick Tock where do
you find them mobile devices it's super
important that you optimize your site to
be responsive so that way your website
can expand if someone has a big you know
desktop computer a laptop an iPad a
small mobile phone or a big mobile phone
a responsive design adapts so that way
it fits all these devices and you can
also use tools like browser testing to
figure out if hey is my website actually
responsive and working effectively
depending on the operating system the
phone type the screen size and even the
browser type
now if you need help with your SEO check
out my Ad Agency NP digital if you
enjoyed this video like it share it tell
people about it and leave a comment if
you have any questions